The world is crazy right now. You're
building a company in a very competitive
market. How do you stay sane?
>> If I were to boil it down into one word,
it's
>> This is Oscar [music] Hogland, the
co-founder and CEO of Epidemic Sound,
who grew a $ 1.4 billion company behind
3 billion views on social media every
single day.
>> One of the most important things that we
ever did was trying to understand value
chains.
>> Can you explain value chain?
>> If you understand the value chain you
are in, you can get leverage. and
leverage in my world is with a small
amount of input, you can get a huge
amount of output.
>> With more data on viral content than
almost anyone, Oscar is building an AI
that will change everything. But success
came at a price. The darkest moment that
almost made him walk away.
>> My wife said, "This doesn't work anymore
because our life now is better when
you're not here."
>> Oscar rebuilt everything after that
night. Now he breaks down the framework
any founder can apply. How to scale
bigger, make more money, and avoid the
mistakes that cost him everything.
Hello everyone, welcome to Silicon
Valley Girl. I have Oscar from Epidemic
Sound. Today, Oscar's company is behind
3 billion views on social media every
single day, and that's just YouTube,
right?
>> Correct.
>> So, you know a thing or two about going
viral. Have you seen any patterns behind
videos that stand out, that use your
music? Is there anything like, "Oh, this
is happening right now."
>> Well, first off, thanks for having me.
And then to answer your question,
we soundtrack huge amounts of online
video every single day across all
platforms. And so we're privy to see a
lot of different trends. I think that
what's at the core of all of those
trends, however, is like a very
philosophical thing, which is content
creation and going viral is ultimately
about helping create meaningful human
connections. And so what we do is we
facilitate creativity and we help spark
interest.
>> Do you see any correlation? Like if I'm
a YouTuber, cuz I use music, but I feel
like the way I use music is like, okay,
I was at Sharon's concert yesterday. Let
me just use that shirt like and that the
way it works for me but I'm trying to
understand the mechanics like do you see
anything like oh this ch music
performance better with this like have
you noticed something while analyzing
that data
>> ultimately what you're trying to achieve
with music as we said on the outset is
you want to help create an emotion and
this similar to common belief if you
only use commercially well-known music
as a storyteller as a person looking to
help create a specific feeling, you
abdicate from that power because you
don't know exactly who's had what kind
of experience with a 9-in nail track or
an ed track, regardless of how romantic
the track might be or how full of energy
it might be. I I'll share one
interesting trend which we saw a few
years ago, which was coming out of co I
don't know what the American expression
is, but I think it's called comfort
food. As in if you're if you're feeling
down, you'll eat a a bucket of ice cream
to make you feel good. And we could
literally see in the world that there
was a world where the world was feeling
low postco and there was a lot of
comfort food going on. So a lot of music
which was very reassuring, calming,
warm, uh classical music had a huge
spike because people wanted to feel
reassured. It's going to be okay.
>> Have you seen any like 0ero to one
examples where creators came with not a
lot of views then they added music and
boom it started exploding? To be quite
honest, we see that all the time when
there is a unique and distinct
connection between what's being said
visually and then what's being said from
an audio perspective when that creates
>> either an extreme symbiosis or an
extreme dissonance but that there's
something which people find fascinating.
There was a story that I heard many many
years ago which relates to the crosses
right and so the background was that one
of my co-founders was having lunch uh
with a tabloid editor um and this is
many many years here in downtown
Stockholm and so the tabloid editor was
eating and looking at my colleague and
he said have you understood this the
crosses my colleagues go like the
crosses what do you mean [snorts] and he
said well humans are drawn to crosses in
the sense that if on my tablet if I put
a very famous um sports star and they
talk about their sport success, nobody
cares.
Okay. However, if I put that sports star
on the front of the magazine and they
tell me about that they're battling um
alcoholism or some kind of substance
abuse,
>> nobody's anticipating that that's going
to happen. And so people are immediately
drawn to something where there's a
cognitive dissonance. And so that's like
that that's something about humanity and
the nature of being human.
>> And then my co-founder was like, "Wow,
that's insightful. I don't know what to
do with that information, but I'll save
it for a rainy day." And so years passed
and then uh my co-founder, who's a
serial entrepreneur, his name is Zach,
he was running one of the biggest uh
commercial TV broadcasters in Northern
Sweden, and he was their head of
content. At the time they were looking
to go from being a small insignificant
player to try and break through and
become the big broadcaster of their time
and they had tried many things. They
struggled and then eventually they had
decided to go all in on this one format
and the format was the most commercial
TV show you can imagine. It was an
entertainment show. It was designed for
Saturday slots at 8:00 and it was all
about um two teams battling it out
together. And it had been engineered in
such a way that the show was meant to be
great for men, women, young, old. There
was adventure. Uh there was a com an
element of competition. You could be
eliminated. There was danger. There was
humor. They basically created almost
like a Frankenstein. They put together
different parts and they engineered the
most commercial show you can think
about. But the show needed a front
runner, somebody who is going to be the
face of the most commercial show ever.
and that this broadcaster, their entire
future was betting on this show because
it was incredibly expensive. And so my
co-founder was put back to the point in
time where he was thinking about the
lunch that he had like, I need to create
a cross, something that people are
excited about. And he said, "Okay,
what's the polar opposite of the most
commercial thing ever?" and he thought
about and this was back in Sweden and so
we have this incredibly beloved uh
cross-country skier. His name is
Gundasan. He's from the north of Sweden
and he's about as far from commercial
television as you can imagine. Always
wearing a hat, always in the in the
bushes and always out skiing.
>> And he said that this guy has to be the
front runner of the show. It makes no
sense whatsoever, but if I've ever felt
a cross in my life, this is one of
those. So he suggested to his boss, they
all think that he's had a stroke and
they said, "This is not going to
happen." And he says, "It has to happen
or I'm going to quit." I didn't want him
to quit. And so they put him on the
show. This was a show that altered the
course of history in Swedish TV
production. It became the most popular
show ever. It still runs 10 years later.
And it's one of those crosses. And I
bring it up because I think that that's
the role that music can play as well. I
think that when music really sets
something apart and when you see huge
engagement, virality, and things
exploding, it's when music can play the
role of a cross. You can tell a visual
story and a different audio story.
Building out crosses, I think, is
incredibly important when you build
businesses, when you build podcasts,
when you tell stories.
>> Absolutely. And you're are you building
a tool for that? I was talking to your
CTO and I think he mentioned something
if you can talk about because this is
fascinating for me because we still
can't figure out music progression. I
have amazing editors but I feel like we
have to have an additional person on the
team which you know is it's expensive
but if we could have a tool that could
analyze the video and tell us like hey
this is where progression needs to
start. This is where you pause.
>> So if I were to frame it I'd say the
following. What we're trying to do is we
want to try and usher in a new world
where everyone who's a storyteller,
whether or not you're a 200 person
editing team and a full production or if
you're a solo entrepreneur,
>> we feel that it's about time such that
everyone gets access to same kind of
tooling and a level playing field such
that you would want recommendations like
a music supervis supervisor, somebody
who can help you edit, somebody who can
help you understand when music makes
sense, when it doesn't, sound effects,
how you master, how you make it all come
together. Historically, that's been
incredibly expensive and difficult to
pull together. But we found that we've
come to an inflection point now where we
have the roster of music, the roster of
catalog customers and the understanding
of the platforms out there such that
we're very very confident now that we
think that AI has an incredibly
important role to play here such as an
unlock. It's never going to be the case
that AI could or should replace the
human connections, but it can play a
crucial role in facilitating that. And
so what we're able to see now is we can
accumulate huge amounts of data in terms
of this is the music that we have at
hand. These are all the artists. This is
all the art that we work with. And we've
known historically over time this is how
it's performed. This is where there's
engagement. This is where there is
feedback. And we can start to play that
back individually to content creators
such that we're going to be in a
position where basically everyone has
access to all of these insights. And so
you can start to utilize services which
were previously only made available if
you had huge budgets. And so this is
going to help you analyze how is my own
video performing the music that I've
used, what are my peers using, what are
the different platform trends.
>> So when is it going to happen?
>> So um this is something that we are
working on as we speak. We've already
started to release quite a few tools
within this area. So we released AI
voice a few months ago. We've released
the opportunities to uh alter the length
uh of the track such that that was
actually a pretty big breakthrough
because historically the way that an
editor has had to work is if you found a
track that you liked, you would
typically have to re-edit your content,
your story to fit the track because it
was very cumbersome to try and do it the
other way around. We've now gotten to a
point where we can actually do the
opposite such that you have an edit,
you're super happy, the story works,
you've cut it in the way you want. You
have this incredible track, but it turns
out it's 1 minute too long or it's uh a
little bit too short. Well, you can now
use our AI tools to use that track. So,
allow for the artist track and vision to
be slightly adapted such that it fits
better to the actual uh stories that
you're looking to make and that you have
in your head. So, can you give advice to
a creator or maybe a small business
owner who's doing some content for their
business? Uh, what are the steps that
they should take to increase the views
to create this emotional connection with
their brands?
>> I think the first job to do is okay,
let's establish what would I like to
sound like? What are the values? What
are the core stories I'm trying to tell?
And then using that insight, that's when
you come to Epidemic, right? And so you
come to the platform, you create a free
account and then you can start to use
the tools to look at your videos. We
would come with suggestions. You tell us
this is my channel. This is the
direction I want to go and we then can
aggregate huge amounts of data to
determine that this is where we think
that you're going. And then we can start
to serve you suggestions. And the more
we interact with you, the more we get to
know you and the better our suggestions
can become.
>> And then I think it also comes down to
being I love the term being a ferocious
learner. And so I think as a
storyteller, as passionate as you tend
to be about the stories you want to
tell, I think you should be similarly
about who do I look up to, who else
sounds or feels or creates that emotion,
that connection, and then from that
information, we can derive a lot of
insights as well and help build
recommendations around that, too.
Listening to how Epidemic Sound
streamlines workflow for creators,
making music licensing simple so you can
focus on storytelling, it reminded me of
a great tool that does something
similar, but for a different part of the
creator workflow that eats up just as
much time. Because no matter how good
your content sounds or looks, most
creators still lose hours every week
just trying to keep up with their
audience. That's where Pop.store, store,
who's sponsoring this part of the video,
comes in. It's designed as an all-in-one
creator HQ. Everything you make, share,
and sell can live in one place. But the
feature that's been getting attention is
their AI assistant. It scans thousands
of comments and DMs across Instagram and
Facebook, flags the important ones, and
helps creators reply fast without
burning out. According to their data,
it's been shown to double engagement and
you get more reach because the algorithm
pushes post with high interaction. It's
basically the assistant every creator
wishes they had. One that never takes a
day off and makes you look way more
responsive that you might actually be.
It's called Echo and is designed to help
you stay connected with your community
without sacrificing the hours you need
for editing, filming, or honestly just
living your life. So, if you're trying
to grow your content while juggling
everything else, Pop. Store might be
worth checking out. You can set up your
own AI assistant and stop spending every
night buried in your DMs. I'll leave
Pop. Store link below if you want to
explore it. So, I heard you say uh when
you build a product, you start with a
feature,
>> then it becomes a product, then it
becomes a marketplace.
>> Yes.
>> I absolutely love that because as
someone who loves building companies,
it's really hard to start when you think
about your company. Oh, I'm going to
build the next marketplace. But it's
really easy to think about your company
when you think I'm going to build a
feature which is going to make people's
lives easier. Can you talk about
Epidemic Sun? How you built it out?
>> Absolutely. U so first off that quote's
not mine. I've heard it and I've used it
profoundly. So like I
>> I love it. I heard it from you. So for
me feature product platform.
>> Yeah.
>> And so in the early days when Epidemic
launched uh I would 100% argue that we
were a feature. We were a feature in
that we were a one-trick pony. We were a
nice to have and not a need to have. And
the initial innovation that we came up
with was that we were five co-founders.
We came from storytelling. We'd made TV
shows. But we saw earlier than most that
the internet was transforming. It was
moving from a world which was initially
very techcentric. We would anticipate
that there's going to be a picture
component to this. But over time, we
were utterly convinced that everything
online is going to be videocentric, but
we also knew coming from traditional TV
production that most problems could be
solved bar the music one because music
was a very complex legacy business. It
had evolved over time and despite best
intentions, it was a complex beast where
it was very difficult to clear music to
use it in television and bar impossible
to use it online where consumption would
happen instantaneously all over the
world. So we were pulling out the little
hair that I had left uh and saying that
this needs to be solved. And so step one
for us was a legal innovation. We took a
step back and we said the traditional
music industry hinges on representation
such that a track that's created has
multiple interests. There's a producer,
there's an artist, there's a songwriter,
there are label, there are publishers,
there are pros and they all contribute
with fractional pieces of value. They
all feel entitled to the upside, but
nobody has like final say. Nobody can
determine how or where this track gets
used. And they have two things in
common. They all sort of hate each other
with a passion quite often because they
have very competing views in terms of
who's contributed most value and they
all have veto rights such that if one
party was unhappy with any commercial
deal, the track was made void and you
couldn't use it in your video. It
couldn't go on YouTube or on Tik Tok and
other places.
>> And so at its core, our initial uh like
big innovation was let's move away from
a model of representation to one of
ownership. And the only way of doing
that is by doing right by artists. So we
said we'll start to pay handsomely
upfront and acquire all of the rights.
We make sure that we keep the artist
whole because we think that if we can
build a huge compelling catalog of
amazing music
>> made specifically for soundtracking
content bringing stories to life. We
think that will be a huge breakthrough
>> because we can then be the only provider
in the world which has a complete
catalog where we can reach out to
storytellers and say hey this similar
from everyone else we have 100% of all
the rights here so we can indemnify you
and say you can use this for all of your
content across all platforms across all
of the world and epidemic
[clears throat]
exploded like there was instant product
market fit but we were a onetrick pony
and that's what I mean by we were a
feature we were nice to have But we were
more like a vitamin which is great if
you take your vitamin in the morning but
if you forget
>> you still live. Yeah.
>> You want to be something which is a
necessity. And so the first innovation
the first part of the journey was being
a feature.
>> And so what we did number two is we said
let's complicate let's complement the
legal innovation with software. Let's
make sure they become a soundtracking
platform. We want to be at a point where
we understand our customers so well that
they cannot think about editing a video
without having all of our tools made
available to them. And so that was point
number two. That's when we became a
product. We realized that okay, we're
past feature. We're a product now. Like
we're integrated into we work with
millions of content creators. We
soundtrack 70% of all the world's
biggest YouTubers. And that was like our
version of getting to a product. The
third point was how do you become a
platform? um how do you get to a point
where there are more people seeing value
and providing value through the
infrastructure that you've built? And so
about 6 months ago, we realized that
we're having our Amazon moment. And what
I mean by that is there was probably a
point in time where people at Amazon
said that, okay, we've been building out
the best tools, the best infrastructure
for years to help our business grow, to
help our business scale, to be
insightful. We've developed processes
and we've hired people such that our
infrastructure is amazing. Why don't we
open this up as a product for the rest
of the world such that other people can
scale using our internal infrastructure?
A version of that discussion probably
happened. They decided to call it AWS
>> and the rest is history, right? So
cloud. So everyone got access
>> most profitable product that they had.
>> That wouldn't surprise me. Um, but AWS
was the result of an internal tool that
was so good that they turned it into a
platform and everyone started using AWS
to power and to scale their businesses.
Now, how does that relate to us? Well, 6
months ago, we realized we've gone to a
point where we are probably the best
positioned. We have the most amount of
data. We have the most sophisticated uh
group of employees. We built the most
amount of proprietary um data stack such
that we understand better than anyone
else how music travels online, what kind
of emotions it make, how it can
commercially make or break content
creators, where uh music could and
shouldn't be launched um and in what
order. And we said, I think that this is
our platform moment. We should probably
open up similar to what Amazon did. And
we said, we're called Epidemic, so let's
call it Antidote. So we become a
platform for helping both storytellers
and artists and people who have IP to
connect to each other. From a tactical
perspective, one of the most important
things that we ever did was trying to
understand value chains.
>> Can you explain value chain?
>> Before we [snorts] had a product which
was good enough for online creators, we
started in our local vicinity which was
broadcasting in the Nordic. We realized
that there were roughly about 5,000
freelance editors in Sweden
16 years ago when we launched the
company. No matter how hard we racked
our brains, we couldn't come up with a
plan to reach, let alone persuade 5,000
freelancers to use our music instead of
everything else out there.
>> And so we needed to understand like what
was the ecosystem. And it turned out the
following was true in Sweden back then.
We realized that yes, there are 5,000
[snorts]
freelance editors, but they're
freelancers and there are a total of 50
production companies that produce the
vast majority of all the TV shows in
Sweden. And we said, okay, can we can we
entertain the idea of reaching out to 50
production companies and trying to
persuade them? And the answer was still
no. Like we don't have enough cloud. And
then we took another step in the value
chain and we said, "Okay, of the 50
production companies, who do they work
for?" And it turns out that there were
four major broadcasters who were
commissioning the vast majority of all
the shows from the 50 production
companies and from the 5,000 editors.
And we said, "Okay, can we pull together
four meetings with four major
broadcasters?" And the answer was,
"Yes."
>> Of course we can. And because we
understood their pain points, the
following happened. like all of the four
deals within like weeks as I remember it
was probably months they all closed and
they said that
>> you've understood where we're heading
we're on the journey
>> our catalog at the time was tiny
>> but the vision was right the empathy and
the customer centricity was there so we
signed multi-year deals with all of
these broadcasters
>> day number two what they did is they
said that because all of the revenue
from the production companies come from
us they called the meeting the day after
and they summoned 50 production
companies to come and meet Epidemic.
>> They did the work for you.
>> And then the week after the 50
production company booked 50 separate
meetings where they summoned 5,000
editors and say that if you want to make
any of our shows, you have to come meet
Epidemic cuz they're a new kid in town.
>> Wow.
>> And so like that's how I came to
understand the power of understanding.
If you understand the value chain you
are in, you can get leverage. And
leverage in my world is like with a
small amount of input you can get a huge
amount of output.
>> I love this story.
>> Uh is that also how you hire people cuz
your team
>> is amazing. So your product officer used
to build the initial Amazon app. You
have exco of CLA.
>> I was like reading through the list. I'm
like this guy knows how to hire.
>> Yes.
>> Can you uh give us a little secret?
Well, first of thank you. I tend to
agree. Um, I have a very strong belief
in a few things obviously, but in terms
of philosophy when you hire, I only
believe in hiring people smarter than
myself because I fundamentally want to
hire smart people to tell me what to do.
Again, taking impressions from others
who've said this before me, but I
strongly feel that if I'm the smartest
person in the room, we're all doomed.
And so, I need to make sure that I have
other people who are way smarter than
myself. And then you find the
>> And then you find the crosses. Exactly.
And then you find the crosses.
>> Love it. Uh and you don't believe in
hustle culture as a sweet, right? Cuz
what I've seen from the last weekend
when we spent time with your company,
we're doing snaps. We're eating
crayfish. So you're proving it's
actually possible to build a billion
dollar company without having to hustle
all the time and everyone is relaxed.
>> Um what do you think is wrong then with
[laughter] American culture-wise [gasps]
in the US? you're going to have to
hustle.
>> I love the US. Uh I deeply respect US
culture and I take a lot of inspiration.
I try and mix the best of as many worlds
as I can. I studied at Wharton in the US
and I there was this term I learned
which is uh being a ferocious learner
and I really took that to heart. So I
try and try and learn as much as I can,
read as much, study as much as I can.
And so where I come down on hustle
culture and and basically what you need
to succeed cuz it's not as clearcut as I
don't believe in in hustle culture. I
think that in order to be successful as
an entrepreneur in general and as a
storyteller in particular my current
best thinking until I come up with
something better is that there are four
components. I think it starts with
talent and I'm going to a hot take. I
think this is the least important and so
you need to have talent when you start
but talent isn't enough. Talent is a
ticket to ride and it allows you to
participate and it's less about talent
in absolute terms but more talent
relative to your competitor set
>> like do you have an edge from a talent
perspective but that's just a starting
point. Point number two I think is grit.
Like if I ever were to get a tattoo,
Swedes are the most tattooed people in
the world.
>> Really?
>> Um, fun fact, h I have zero tattoos as
of yet. I'm 47. It's [laughter] not too
late.
>> It's coming.
>> If I get one, my favorite word all
categories is relentless. Like I have it
on sweatshirts because it just reminds
me it's it's cousin to the word grit.
>> And I think it's such an important
component. So you need to start with
talent, but then you need grit and you
need to be relentless. You need to
acknowledge and be willing to sacrifice.
It's probably going to take 70 80our
weeks for many many years before you
even lift.
>> Did you have those weeks in your life?
>> Oh yes, very much so.
>> So witnessing like fast hustle.
>> Very much so. And so I think hustle can
mean different things for different
people. One version like the harsh um
definition of hustle is dishonest.
Hustle is saying that this is great,
it's not, and then trying to sell. And
so that's one version. I think hustle
also means just going at it constantly
all the time
>> like 70 hour weeks.
>> Exactly. And so I that's why I wanted to
create some nuance because I think it's
super important that you need to
acknowledge that there is a lot of grit,
a lot of relentless. And I think that
that's I rate that higher than talent. I
because talent is your ticket to play
but then grit on top of that which you
can choose that's like a very important
component of success. But then I think
the third part is is lost on most people
and we alluded to it before. You need to
acknowledge that in your career, in your
line of work, in the industry you
choose, there are tons of taste makers,
facilitators, and gatekeepers. And you
only identify and let alone meet a
fraction of them. So there are so many
people who have a say in your ultimate
success and in your liftoff. And the
only takeaway that makes sense for me is
that you need to create a culture. You
need to conduct conduct yourself as a
person who other people want to succeed
because they will have infinite amounts
of opportunity to either help or destroy
your opportunity to grow. And the only
way I've come up with to do that is to
make sure that you are a person who is
uh like a a net provider in that when
I'm dead on my tombstone. I think
there's one phrase. This was Oscar. He
gave more than he took. And I use that
phrase all the time. I think as an
individual, you should conduct yourself
where you want to make sure that you're
always giving more than you're taking
off the table.
>> I absolutely love that. So if you push
that out there and it's deeply selfish
because if you do that it makes you feel
good in the moment because it feels good
to give much more so than to get. It's
it's selfish because it scales so
incredibly well such that I try and like
often when people reach out to me like
one way to prime yourself is that when
I'm introduced to somebody that I've not
met before I just the first thing I say
is hey how can I help? It's just a
reminder not also hey how are you or who
are you but hey how can I help and
invite them to ask me to do something
because if I can be helpful in any way
like not only will that compound because
suddenly oh that compounds over time so
I'll have hundreds and eventually
thousands of people who are indirect
backers of me and my colleagues and my
company because I've helped them because
when they when they mention I was like
he's always so helpful yeah they helped
me do this they didn't have to they
opened the door they made an intro if
you do that enough times there is going
going to be and you never know where it
comes from. There are always
opportunities when they have the the
chance to reciprocate. Can you recommend
anyone like we're doing this new Netflix
show, who should we reach out to? Like
Epidemic is great. I've spoken to them
so many times. I can only endorse them.
And so I think that you need to really
sort of lean into that point and it's
it's great because it gives you also a
sense of I'll give you another example
like a concrete way of doing that is
introductions.
Um I pride myself in doing great
introductions. I don't do them often. I
do them about once a week. But if
somebody wants an intro, I always do an
open intro. So let's say that you want
to meet a friend of mine here in the
industry and of course I'll reach out,
are you okay? And then are you okay?
I'll do a little bit of homework. You
can use chat GTP or something else or
just read up online and then I take what
I know and I do like two paragraphs. So
I explain you in a serious but also like
a fun fact about you. And they'll take
the other person also serious and then a
fun fact which I somehow weirdly relate
to your first fun fact. And then you
should meet and then I also tend to
write in there like I love introducing
smart people to each other because two
things happen. One, the world is a
better place when great people know each
other.
>> And two, when two smart people know each
other and I'm the source of that, your
genius like reflects positive in me cuz
you think about me in a better way.
>> And so I think that that's the third
component. You just do that. And so we
just had a great weekend together. Same
thing here. We just we do great stuff
and then we think that over time we
don't know how but this is going to play
out well.
>> Quick pause here. If you're enjoying
this podcast, you will absolutely love
my inner circle newsletter. So what I
basically do is I take all the tips from
these podcasts and I apply them to my
personal life, to my investment
portfolio and to my businesses, this
media company and my language teaching
business. Sometimes we get amazing
results and I share our real tactics.
Sometimes we don't and I share that too.
Think of it as an insider version of
this podcast. The link is in the
description. Join my free newsletter to
stay ahead.
>> The world is crazy right now. You're
building a company in a very competitive
market. You know, all the labels are
after [laughter] everything. How do you
stay sane?
>> If I were to boil it down into one word,
it's disciplined. I think that the best
thing you can do in order to stay sane
is be disciplined. I can give you case
in point. So, uh my wife and I have
three children. They're older now, but
uh throughout the first 10 years of
epidemic, discipline was the key. So,
everyone always if you're an
entrepreneur, uh finance people always
want morning meetings. I would always
say no to them because it was crucial
for me. I knew that the likelihood of
epidemic being successful if I ran the
numbers was very low. Um and so I knew
that there was a chance for failure. And
I said, I'm willing to bet on that, but
I'm not willing to bet on my
relationship with my family. And so I
put guard rails in place. And I said
that I never do meetings before 9:00
a.m. And because I always went up and
sort of took the kids to school, I had a
bike, I would drive them to daycare,
make sure that that was was was done.
And it would be always to like the
detriment of uh financial people. But
they had to adapt to me, not the other
way around. So I didn't do anything
before 9. And then between 9 and 6, I
would go at it work-wise like a crazy
person. But then 6, I have a function in
my phone, stops working, shuts down. And
between 6:00 and 9, I'm unreachable. I
never do meetings. I never do
exceptions. So, Monday to Friday, that
was the case. Go home with the family,
have dinner, put the kids to bed, read a
bedtime story, my wife is up in the
morning, she's a superwoman, and then
she falls uh to sleep around 9:00.
That's when my phone starts working
again. And that's when I did my second
run. So, I would work from 9 to 1 in the
night when the US got up or Asia. Wow.
>> And so, I did a night run and then I'd
go to bed.
>> But then I would never work weekends
ever.
>> And then, uh, no. So I would typically
travel during the weeks. So I'd keep the
travels Monday to Friday. And then I
made a big point of taking proper
vacation in the summer. The hardest
moment in my entrepreneurial
journey was when I couldn't reconcile
family life with business life. Our kids
were young at the time. I'd been out
traveling non-stop the entire year. It
was probably my sixth or seventh trip to
the US in that same year. And when I
came back, um, my wife and I sat down
and my wife said something to the tune
of, "This doesn't work anymore because
our life now is better when you're not
here." And that was without compromise
or without any comparison, the darkest
moment in my entire life. Um, day after
I called my co-founder and said, "I'm
gonna quit." I get all stoked up when I
talk about it. Um, and we made some like
incredible [snorts]
changes. Like we rethought the business.
I rethought my role. We made a ton of
big changes. And I was super close to
quitting. Uh, cuz I've always been
family first. And as I said, I work to
live. I don't live to work.
>> Is that when you discovered this
discipline thing that works for you now?
Especially when it comes to kids, right?
>> Yes. But it's true for exercise, like
being disciplined. It's true for food
and alcohol like everything in
moderation but just having
>> sweets have a different understanding of
moderation. [laughter]
>> Okay, alcohol. Fair point. Alcohol. Fair
point. [laughter]
But otherwise, I think that um I think
the discipline is the unsexy answer to
success. I love it.
>> That's how you get somewhere.
>> What are your top three favorite AI
apps?
>> Oh, so I'm a huge user of the different
Google suites within Gemini. Chat GPT
use all the time. I think I'll stop
there because I say these are the two
where I'm investing most of my time now
to make sure that I understand them and
more importantly they understand me so I
get more and more value from them
>> playing with anything right now like
vibe coding or
>> uh yes so I can't disclose too much but
from a vibe vibe coding perspective um
we think that there's a huge opportunity
to be the default provider of music to
vibe coders like if you think about vibe
coding
>> I think it's a beautiful thing because
roughly what 1% of the world's
population can code. And what VIP coding
is is looking to try and solve for is
how can you get the other 99% of the
world's population to code. We think
that within that world, like all of what
they're building is currently muted.
Like there's no music component to that.
We think that that needs to change.
>> For someone who's willing to start a
business using AI, what would be your
one advice that they should stick to?
One of the best frameworks I ever
learned was when I was a mediocre
management consultant. I worked for BCG
for a few years and it was not my
calling. Uh I got the job, I did it, I
learned a lot. Uh but ultimately it
wasn't for me. But they taught me a
framework in terms of uh do you know
when you're allowed to call something an
analysis when you've analyzed something.
So when you ask the question why three
times and so the example is the
following. There's this company that
doesn't make money anymore. You need to
understand like why is that? Analyze it.
And the only time you can call it
analysis is if you've dug down into why
three times. Okay? So why is the company
not making money anymore? You look at
the revenue numbers. Have they gone
down? The answer is no. You look at the
cost numbers. Have they gone up? Yes.
Okay. So it's a cost question. Like the
costs have increased. That's why we're
not making profit. That's the first why.
So why have the cost numbers gone up?
You look at the inputs. Are they at the
same amount? like are we buying the same
amount of uh input? The answer is yes.
And you look at the unit cost. Is the
unit cost the same? And you go no, the
unit cost has gone up quite a bit. Okay,
so it's not about the materials per se.
It's about the unit cost having gone up.
And then you ask the question like the
third time, why have the unit costs gone
up? And you go down and you analyze and
you ask a number of questions and you
realize that well we used to have three
providers and we would play them out
towards each other and such that we were
the market maker. But then one of our
suppliers went into bankruptcy and the
other two suppliers acknowledged that
and they merged. So we have one supplier
and they dictate the price. And so the
answer is like the reason why we're not
making any money is because there's a
cartel going on down here. And the the
solve is let's do a tender, we invite
five other suppliers and we introduce
competition and then we'll start making
money again.
>> But you have to ask the question why?
Three down, three times down. And that's
when you have an analysis. So in the age
of AI, I think that as as the name
implies like you have artificial
intelligence
uh which is in abundance. I think you
need to be really good at asking like
making an analysis of different
situations like going down three steps.
Why why why is this going to work? Why
isn't it? Why is this? If you can
understand that root cause and then you
can deploy AI around that in order to
help quickly serve or understand and
build things. So complement the human
condition being curious and being
rigorous and having uh discipline and
then unleashing AI tools to help you
understand and answer these questions as
soon as possible to find inefficiencies
and market opportunities.
>> Yeah. Before just rushing into an idea,
just dig deeper.
>> Don't just go why. Go why? Why? Why? And
then
>> I love that.
>> Thank you so much, Oscar. Oh my, that
was amazing. That was so good. Thank
you.
>> I hope it was okay.
>> Thank you. is great.